this section
hello welcome to the section
mechanical hobby bike tips today
I'm going to talk about the technical data sheet
get in emails asking what
I must see that it is important to send a
technical sheet because if they give it to you what
You look very nice the bike a photo
fantastic but I would like to know a
little bit better here I have a
technical sheet
of a sling cbr 600f a motorcycle is very
sold here in Spain and let's see it
a little bit and we will explain the motor part
which is an important part that we
interesting to know that we need what
first we have the displacement not you
Mark the cubic centimeters 599
usually these motorcycles would be about 600
you will see that it never reaches any of
the cubic in is by regulation by
legislation must not exceed 600
cubic centimeters and will exceed it
would pass a following category both in
insurance as in taxes where the
manufacturers are pretty well assured of
that does not exceed in any way in
no tolerance of 600
cubic centimeters that's why it's funny and
you will see 599 598 597 what is what
we call 600 centimeters
cubic is rounded
we have the power in this case 102
horses at 12,000 revolutions
he marks the maximum power careful with
this data because many times you will say
102 horses 12,000 revolutions and
means that my maximum power is
there but not this is not the maximum turn in
this motorcycle should possibly turn
about 14 thousand 15 thousand laps always
after the maximum power
we need a lap fall because
if we would not reach the maximum power and
the engine would cut and then it is not is not
It is not logical for many manufacturers in the
technical sheets that want to sell the
vehicle they can put you or they will put you
a power curve so that it can
observe worth the 102 horses because it is
by subject carnets is what you have to
look because you can limit or not
and often comes with the pair
of this case not but sometimes it exposes you
in the torque to the laps that is
to show if the engine is an engine
that the mind has low as an engine
that accelerates or is an engine designed to
turn in this case
we turn to what would be the engine part
Four four cylinders in line
we have the typical four engine online
it's worth four times 16 valves that is
4 valves per cylinder
now they are all like that are the 16
valves that are going to score in many
missions a lot escape we are working
with a lot of area and a lot of speed but
they are engines that get a lot of performance
in this case this engine pulls 102
horses but I could take many
more more than the conception of the motorcycle is
to make a motorcycle that lasts many
kilometer
is expressed in the diameter per race
all 67 millimeters that would be diameter
piston by 40 and 2.5 millimeters which is
Piston stroke is without movement of the
piston
we are dealing then with careers
short what we call a race engine
cut the boats face short your engine is
quite ideal for high revolutions
actually the race is used a lot
short to eliminate inertias and so they do
that the vibrations in the motor are
much smaller
someone will think good if the piston
it is very big, it will weigh more the good piston
currently interested pistons
that are made in japan smelting that
they are put with with silicon and silicon in
ceramic one part are ceramic weigh
very little they are very large but they weigh
very little and have terrible resistance
and they are very expensive to do also not
think that the piston is one of the things
that lasts longer in an engine can break
the engine and the pistons look good
It is also one of the most expensive parts
of the engine to repair then good
we have very large pistons and in this
case whenever we see a diameter more
great that the race we will have what
you call a short race engine if it were
we would have a square engine two
engines widely used in the subject of
competition and they no longer exist or if the one that
the race was bigger than the
diameter we have a long career that
they are very little used
the liquid initiation so we'll count
with radiator and water pump
this what to do is stabilize a lot
more what would be the engine block and
stabilizing the block as you can
get better performance to others
turns
what is food
the electronic injection of gasoline pcm
efe which is the wave injection
in this case
this type of address has been used
very much is super reliable super reliable and
the fact that you're not going to
be able to modify the bike like us
we want not because in this case
we would have measurement problems
electronics has been thought for not
pollute and to get eliminate
all the pollution and it 's works well
we do not have to have these six changes
Currently all six gears
marches because they are engines that seeing the
theme that is short career work
high turns if they work high turns
You need a change totally very
closed where closed changes are sought
so they work well high
revolutions transmission chains are
call this may surprise you for not
you know what is in network is a street a
race with detents that we talked about in
other programs is chain that comes with
fat inside so that they last very many
kilometer
and they always specify a little the subject
of chassis here is a discovering
Each manufacturer puts his name by
example we would have in chassis is the monkey
black with an aluminum casting by
gravity with rectangular section that is
this is good because I have a double beam
in many double beam typical in all
motorcycles the base each motorcycle where it puts a
name as yamaha initiated the issue with the
delta box delta box one two three
four then wave in this case it has
the blackburn monkey that is really a
double beam with some difference
structural
for the issue of patents but the issue is
practically the same
the next program we will talk about the subject
chassis that is also important
observe it to choose the bike that
we want until we program
must go until next week
if you want to make your way as a mechanic
of the competition come to our course of
motorcycle mechanics call us at
93 26 8 14 44 gps training